Team Sleep Deprived: Victoria Gao, Renee Mui, Anya Zorin
SoftDev
LJ00: Le Voyage de Learnination avec Mongo, Première Phase
2020-10-29

Before asking questions check the class forum to see if it has already been answered :
https://discourse.university.mongodb.com/c/M001

Database: a structured way to store and acess data
-The MongoDB database is a NoSQL document database because MongoDB stores data in documents instead of tables, rows, and columns.  
These documents are stored in collections of documents.

Document: organizes and stores data as a set of field-value pairs.
{
	<field>:<value>,
	<field>:<value>
}
<field> is a unique identifier.  
<value> is data related to an identifier.

Collection: contains many documents that usually has common fields between 
documents. There can be many collections per database and many documents per collection.

MongoDB Atlas: MongoDB is used in the Atlas cloud database for data storage and retrieval.
Atlas manages cluster creation, run and maintain database deployment (include deploying cloud service
providers that users choose), and allows users to experiment with new tools and features.
-Free-tier: charts, realm, small-scale app

Cluster: group of servers that store data.  When a cluster is deployed,
the servers are configured as a replica set by default, which is a few connected machines
that store the same data.  This setup ensures that if something happens to one of the machines in the replica set,
the data will be available for an application by the working members of the replica set.

Instance: a single machine in the cloud or locally that runs software.  Atlas is a MongoDB database run in the cloud. 

Personal/Team Notes:
- use the in browser IDE for the labs
- you don't have to download anything
- the Atlas interface has lots of useful things
- it includes statistics on the database
- you can add and delete users, but we will not really be dealing with that in this course
- you connect to atlas using the connection link you get from clicking the connect button 
on the Atlas interface for the cluster. 